---
layout: post
title: Code Club No. 1
---

I’m running a weekly [Code Club](http://www.codeclub.org.uk/) at
[De Beauvoir Primary School](http://www.debeauvoir.hackney.sch.uk/).

The first club was chaotic and extremely fun. I was lucky enough to
have great support from De Beauvoir teachers Rebecca Stacey and Keith Jones.
We didn’t get all that close to finishing the first project, but I think we
successfully established that Code Club is going to a lot of fun for all
concerned.

My first job was to get everyone to boot [Scratch](http://scratch.mit.edu/).
Most of the kids dived right in, covering the stage in colourful sprites.
As cool as everyone’s stages were looking, I had to insist they start a
fresh project for the next step to make sense.

With everyone ready to code, I began the introduction to Scratch.
This involves working through a “Hello World” project step-by-step while
the kids follow along on their own machines. It takes about 20 mintues,
and should get everyone up to speed so they can begin the first project.

I found most of the kids got on just fine with this intro. There were a
few questions, but mostly involving the less-obvious buttons in Scratch’s
UI.

The intro wraps up by demonstrating how to save a project and upload it
to the Scratch website. This was mostly fine although some of the kids
were signed-in to accounts for a different year group, meaning they
couldn’t save their work to the correct folder. This is worth watching
out for — be sure to ask the teachers what the normal protocol is
in IT lessons.

Confident that “Hello World” was in the bag, we handed out the worksheets for
Project 1: “Felix and Herbert”. We didn’t have quite enough worksheets
for everyone so some photocopies were made while the kids shared.
Another note: Scratch’s UI communicates largely through colour,
so black and white photocopies don’t really cut the mustard.

Everyone’s pace with “Felix and Herbert” was different.

Some chose to mostly ignore it and focus on putting their newly-acquired
programmatic animation and noise-making skills to work on the sprite collages
they’d made prior to the intro.

Others worked meticulously through the project, but needed a little help
understanding the notion that scripts are added in the context of
individual sprites *or* the stage as a whole. This is probably the only aspect
of Scratch that isn’t immediately intuitive, but I’m not sure there’s any
better solution.

